
How to Invest in Real Estate with No Money

Investing in Real Estate













Eric Alexander Pattini


Real Estate
Step-By- Step Guide


Table of Contents

Introduction	3
Chapter 1: Business Introduction	4
Real Estate Sources of Income	4
Setting Goals	5
Chapter 2:  Setting a Strong Foundation	6
Asset and Tax Preparation	6
Building Your Team	9
Chapter 3: How to Determine the Value of an Investment	11
How to Know When to Buy a Property	11
Chapter 4: How to Find Valuable Real Estate Deals	16
Tried and True Marketing Techniques to Take your Business to the Next Level	16
Marketing for Wholesale Opportunities	18
Finding Motivated Sellers	19
Chapter 5: How to Structure a Real Estate Deal	20
How to Construct a Wholesale Deal	20
Calculating Numbers on Rental Property	22
How to Present your Project to Cash Buyers	24
How to Put a Property Under Contract	24
How to Sell a Contract	25
How to Reduce any Risk in the Buying and Selling process	25
Chapter 6: How to Fund a Real Estate Deal	26
Traditional Financing	26
Creative Financing	27
Money Lender Psychology and Terminology	28
How to Find Hard Money Lenders	30

Introduction


Dear Friend,
Welcome to your guide to Investing in Real Estate.
We believe you’re reading this book because you have a burning desire to become financial independent, create long lasting wealth, have massive impact and help others.
I wanted to take a moment to share some thoughts with you in no order about what to expect in this book.
First, there are a lot of opportunities to go deeper in the book, get access to exclusive, free content, and more.
Second, this book is intended to help you grow your investment portfolio and create wealth. It’s intended for anyone who finds interest and desire to invest their time and effort in real estate. You don’t need a big net worth to get started.
Third, this is a step-by-step guide to investing in real estate. My intention and the purpose of this book is to show you that anyone can invest in real estate, expose you to multiple ways to promote yourself with marketing strategies, how to find the right deals and being able to fund any of these without having to pay for it yourself.
There are opportunities throughout this book to register and get free stuff. We have some great products we’d like to offer to you because they work, they are awesome and you’ll have a better life with them.
If you like what you learn or find most of this information useful, I’d absolutely love to hear from you, get to know you better and find out what you learned – or better yet, post a picture or a video on my Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ap.holdings.1 or email me at inversiones.apholdings@gmail.com 
The best way to start a relationship with me will be to visit Facebook page, and read some of the other articles on how to grow your business, brand awareness and wealth.
I’m looking forward to getting to know you better!
Sincerely,
Eric Alexander 
Chapter 1: Business Introduction


Real Estate Sources of Income

When it comes to investing in real estate, there’s a lot of different ways to make money. You must be focused and pick a strategy. First you must have a clear view of the big picture and outcome you want for your business. What type of money you want to make while investing in real estate?
There is a big spectrum of opportunities to invest in different ways in real estate. You must define what type of money you want to make. The 3 Types of income in Real Estate are:
* Active income
* Passive Income
* Interest Income

Active Income, is income that requires you to make and effort or activity to generate a profit. For example, when you wholesale a house or flip a house. It’s an action that you put an effort to, that will result in income.

Passive income, are properties you buy with the intentions to generate profits for life. For example, you buy a property and rent it. That property will generate passive income while you rent it to your tenants.

Interest income, is when you lend money and play the role of a bank. You lend money to other investors like yourself and you collect monthly interest income

Active income is what you live off, you flip a house and make money to get by your daily expenses for a while. As you do this repeatedly, you will eventually have a huge amount of cash flow coming in. As you start making money off this blueprint, you should invest this in passive income and not in things that will rust, rot and depreciate. Passive income and Interest income, will let you keep your dream job and get more money to keep building your empire and get financial freedom

Once you identify what type of income you want, you must then pick the type of real estate you will focus on:
* Residential --> Single family residency (SFR) up to 4 units (4Plex)
* Commercial --> Any property that has over 5 units or office buildings
* Land --> people pay you to do anything on your land

First, you must decide the type of income you want, let’s start off with Active income. Once you pick the type of income, you must decide your strategy, flip or wholesale residential, commercial or land.

Setting Goals
“Our goals can only be reached through a vehicle of a plan, in which we must fervently believe, and upon which we must vigorously act. There is no other route to success.” ~ Pablo Picasso

One of the best ways to increase and measure performance is using KPI’s.
A Key Performance Indicator (KPI) is a measurable value that demonstrates how effectively a company is achieving key business objectives. Organizations like Google, Apple and Facebook use KPI’s to evaluate their success at reaching targets. This principle is vital for tracking and ensuring success and can be applied to all business models
Your 3 Most Important KPI’s are:
* Leads (cost per lead) Example: $33
* Leads per deal (how many leads it takes to close the deal) Example: 67
* Average deal size. Example: $50,000
Once you have these 3 values you can run a simple formula. First, you must determine an Income Goal, this will be $100,000 a month. Our marketing division statistics reveal that it takes around 67 leads to close a deal. In this case, we need 2 deals to accomplish this goal. That costs $2,211 per deal, that’s $4,422 from the $100k
The best way to improve is to give your team Key Performance Indicator’s to follow and track its progress weekly. Have them accountable and let them know exactly what measurable tasks can they do today that will top what they did yesterday.
Chapter 2:  Setting a Strong Foundation


Asset and Tax Preparation

“The greatest victory is that which requires no battle”. -Sun Tzu
Imagine you’re walking down the street and some random malicious person makes you trip and you break your bones. You’re probably not going to sue them because you don’t know if they have assets that are worth the law suit. However, if it was someone famous who made you fall and break your bones, you would probably sue them because you know they have money in the bank. When people know that you have assets, you become a target.
You must always protect your assets before you accumulate wealth
Have your assets under different entities
Don’t Own a House in your Name, don’t buy any real estate under your name. That includes the house that you live in as your primary residence. 
“Own nothing, control everything” -Rockefeller. Owning a home makes you personally liable. To protect your assets, you must reduce all risks of liability. It’s still your home, but on paper it’s not.
“Don’t have personal liable assets”
Sole Proprietor vs General Partnerships
There’s 3 options for you to operate as entities in Real Estate investing.
1) Sole Proprietor
* You make a DBA (Doing Business As) a fictitious name that will allow you to have a business cheque book and card.
This is not a good option since it won’t provide you any legal protection from your business and your personal assets. You will pay higher taxes and are in higher risk of audits.
Always get legal advice from a Real Estate certified lawyer and a Real Estate CPA tax attorney before taking any major action in your business.
Don’t ever invest in Real Estate as a sole proprietor.




2) General Partnerships
* This is even worse than being a sole proprietor.
You file a DBA and a GP (General Partnership) Agreement where you split the benefits.
- You get no protection from your business and your personal assets. 
- You will pay higher taxes and will be in higher risk for audits.
- You will be liable to your business partner and won’t be able to make decisions on your own.

3) Incorporating
* Your best option is to incorporate. Within the US corporation options, you have:
- LLC (Limited Liability Corporation)
- S-Corp
- C-Corp
Each one is unique and has different tax benefits. Each country has its own set of corporate options. You can still buy properties in the USA with your Native corporation.
LLC
This option is usually best for rental property money. Some of the advantages you will get are:
1) Asset Protection, it is its own personal entity, your personal property won’t be liable to law suits
- EIN / TAX ID
This protects your personal stuff. You’re not law suit proof, but you won’t lose your personal stuff.

2) Tax Savings, rental income shows up on Schedule E, you will get tax deductions

3) Lower Risk for Audit, LLC’s are expected to manage large amounts of money so it won’t raise any suspicions.
All this advantages you get from an LLC make sense for Rental Income Real Estate. You don’t want to put your active income in this type of corporation taxing structure.
They can still sue your properties within the LLC, so you have 2 solutions:
1) For every house, you buy, open a new LLC. This is not a good option since it will become an administrative nightmare. However, it’s one way of protecting your personal stuff from being liable to your company
2) Series LLC, even though it’s one LLC, it puts each of its different assets in a Sub LLC
This is the best option and it’s highly advised to talk to your Real Estate attorney about setting up a series LLC


S – CORPS
An S-Corp is the best entity to flip houses as active income
Active IncomePassive IncomeS-Corp
This is a cashflow creating machine.
It will provide you short term income to spend on your daily expenses and will allow you to invest in your financial freedomSeries LLC
This are your wealth assets. It is long term income and will allow you to achieve financial freedom and beyond. You will acquire this by investing the money you get from your wholesales and house flips
Any house that you own for more than one year is considered long term income.
S-Corps are taxed differently than LLC’s, making money flipping properties is best on s-corps
Additional benefits for active incomes:
With s-corps you get to pay yourself in 2 different ways from a house that provides 100K. You get to divide your income and pay 70% to your K-1 and 30% to your salary income. Remember to cover your FICA and State Income Tax inside your payroll. This way you will be able to have more money to invest in long term real estate

C – CORPS
It’s not the best option for Real Estate. This is for companies that intend to grow worldwide

In conclusion, you want to use LLC’s for long term holds. And S-Corps for short term holds









Building Your Team

This is your Real Estate Personal Cabinet. You won’t have to pay upfront for many of this services. 
- Realtor / Buyer Agent, their job is to get you better deals. They only get paid when you Sell a house
- Contractor, fixes things for you, only gets paid when you Buy
- Property Management, they take care of your tenants for you, only gets paid when you Collect Rent
- Title Company, deals with your contracts and bureaucracy, only gets paid when you Close
- Real Estate Attorney, helps you with any legal advice you might need, only gets paid upfront when needed.
You might use an:
- Appraiser, helps you define the value of a property
- Home Inspector, helps you inspect for any issues in a property

Important Paperwork, Closing Documents:
1) Purchase & Sale Agreement (contract) Find any realtor and ask them for a copy of this.
2) Mortgage Deed / Deed of Trust, it’s what put ownership on a house. This lets you know that whoever borrowed the money from, they own the house
3) Promissory Note, this states how much money you’re borrowing how much interest you’re paying on that money, when the money is due back and more financial agreements
All this documents are provided by any Realtor or Real Estate attorney







Deal Timeline:
The Deal Step-by-Step Process
1) Deal Evaluation, you ask for the bedroom, bathroom, square foot, lot size, year built, are there any repairs needed, is it vacant, does it have a mortgage and its estimated payoff balance
2) Comparable Properties (Comps) Look for comparable properties in the neighborhood and the MLS. A good comp is ¼ -  ½ mile within the property. Any home that falls in that radius needs to be within 15% the square footage, style, bed, bathrooms
3) Repair Costs, you can get it from a contractor, home inspector or calculate them on your own
4) Make Offer, negotiate the terms and how you plan to pay
5) Escrow, process done by a title company or a real estate attorney
6) Closing, the house papers and keys are yours
7) Rehab / Repair, house goes on rehab and repairs are made to it
8) Hire Property Manager, they will sell this house for you and you will be able to keep investing your free time in more investment projects
9) House Goes on Market (Open House) the house is now for sale and publicity is being taken care of by your property management company
10)  Sign the lease, by now your house has an offer and all you must do is sign the lease
11)  Get Paid
Chapter 3: How to Determine the Value of an Investment


How to Know When to Buy a Property

In this next section, you will learn everything you need to take in to consideration before buying a property and how to know if a property will grow its value long term. 
You will learn how to evaluate:
* Geographical Location
* Job Growth and Job Markets in the area
* Unemployment Rates
* Population Growth
* Crime Rates
* Housing Age
* Building Permits around the area
* Rental Demand
* Nearby Comparisons (Comps)
* Cost of Housing vs Rental Rates

Geographical Locations
In the US, the coastal city is great for buying a flipping. However, they are not a great ROI (Return on Investment). This is due to the high costs to pay for the house. You must find areas in your country that are great cashflow opportunities. Middle America is a great place to invest in rental properties due to the lower cost of buying a property and the good return on investment it offers.
Let’s say we’re going to invest $1million in rental properties. It’s a terrible idea to invest the whole million in a beautiful property that could potentially rent for $10k / m.
A much better strategy is to diversify your investment into multi-family residential units. If you fund your deal using the techniques this book shows in the next chapter, you will be able to buy 1 property worth $200k with little to no money down. This will allow you to potentially buy 25 properties worth $200k each.



Job Markets and Job Growth
Where job markets move, so does job growth.
o Job Market --> The Industry
o Job Growth --> Amount of available jobs
There are certain areas that have distinguished markets:
o Silicon Valley --> Tech Industry
o Wall street --> Stock Market
Follow the job markets (industries) within the city. Follow where industries are shifting and going. 
“with job markets comes job growth, where jobs go people follow”
If you own and make money from rental properties, people must have a job to be able to pay your rent. There needs to be a healthy job market in the city
Job markets and job growth are like a crystal ball. If you want to know the health of a real estate market in a local city / local marketplace, look at the job health. How jobs perform in the city, real estate follows. It’s a great way of predicting the future of an investment.

Unemployment Rates
Considering unemployment before buying is crucial, this tells you if your renter will be able to pay you. In a local economy, there are national unemployment rates and local unemployment rates.
To find unemployment rates in the US, visit www.city-data.com. This website shows all types of useful demographic information. All this is public information and should be easily accessible from any country.
Always check if unemployment graphs are going downwards. When unemployment goes down, jobs go up. The lower the local unemployment rate is, the better opportunities there are for investing in real estate.





Population Growth
This usually translates to economic growth. Where jobs go, people follow. When there are available jobs, people must move there. This promotes population growth.
You want to rent homes where population is growing because that creates rental demand. Rental demand is what drives prices and creates stability in rental markets.
More important than national economy is local economy. To know how the economy is doing see if people are moving in to rental properties and check if they are buying houses in your local area

Crime Rates
The effect of crime rates is big in real estate. Multiple science studies show that higher population and lower income areas are directly related to higher crime rates. Every real estate investor knows that lower income areas have lower income values. These are called warzones, they are known for putting you in legal trouble because of the higher possibilities of illegal activities being conducted within the property.
Always check with the local police department for updated crime rates reports of your area.
www.spotcrime.com allows you to check the ongoing crime rates of a specific address

Housing Age
Figuring out how to navigate the age of a house is very important. The older a property is, the more potential maintenance there is. You can buy an older home for less than a newer home, but based on bathrooms, bedrooms and square foot (comps) they can rent for roughly the same monthly amount. This is something to take into consideration when buying real estate for renting. Renters pay the same amount of monthly rent no matter the age of the house.
You can buy older houses cheaper and rent them for the same amount as new houses. This will maximize your ROI (Return on Investment).




Building Permits
This is an excellent way to determine future housing values.
The city requires homeowners and building companies to have permits for minor or mayor renovations. Building permits bring up the value of an area. It makes dangerous areas go up in value (staples center before and after example).
As a real estate investor, you must stay up to date with all the city renovations due dates. Look at the building permits of the developers of the city and plan your investments accordingly.
Multimillion dollar renovation projects bring up the value of everything else around it. As the developers of the city pay for mayor city renovations, you can buy the house across the street and watch it double in value. This technique is called “Drafting”

Rental Demand
This will help you figure out how in demand is your property. You should pay close attention to the Days on Market (DOM) of a house. This is a specific number. There are two types of DOM:
1) When you flip, or list a house for sale. This is when you sell. On average, it takes 30 days of marketing to have an offer
2) When you rent a house. Your realtor will be able to give you all the days on market information
www.zillow.com shows houses that are currently listed for sale
Look for the days in the market to know how long it’s going to take for your house to rent or sell.

Determining Values (Comps)
Comps (Comparable Houses) are a way to determine the value of your house
A true comp is all houses that are about:
o ¼ to ½ mile away from your home
o Same or 15% to 10% difference in square footage
o Same number of bedrooms and bathrooms
o Time --> Look for houses that have been sold within the last 90 days
o Age, how old is the property
For Rental Comps, the best way to determine this value is to go house to house and ask or call a local property management company and ask them for the CMA (Comparative Market Analysis). You can also check the M.L.S (Multiple Listing Service) with a realtor.
For the best and most accurate comps, call a local property management company or a realtor and ask them for this information.


Cost of Housing vs Rental Rates
This will help you determine the best ROI (Return on Investment)
If a house costs $1m, you must put down $200k and mortgage the other $800k. Your cash out is $200k, if it rents for $10,000/m, that would be $120,000 yearly Gross Rental Income. However, you will only net around $2,000 monthly after taxes. This is not a good ROI.
However, if a house costs $200k, you will have a better cash flow renting that for $1,000 monthly. You can buy more of this houses and get a better ROI.
To apply this, you must first determine the value of the house.














Chapter 4: How to Find Valuable Real Estate Deals



Tried and True Marketing Techniques to Take your Business to the Next Level

For any type of marketing to be successful and profitable, you must do it from various angles. By combining modern day technology with conventional marketing techniques, you will never run out of clients and possible leads.
1) Bandit Signs --> These are the typical signs you see in the street “We buy Houses”
You should only place these signs in areas that you have been granted permission

2) Direct Mail --> Sending people letters to their mail box physically. You need to send thousands of letters to get 12 quality leads. You only need one deal to pay for all this marketing.
You will only target motivated sellers, these are people going through:
o Divorce
o Bankruptcy
o Notice of Default (people who lose their mortgage payment, this comes before foreclosure)
o Probate (people who inherit homes and want fast money)
All of this is public information which can be found in any courthouse where you live. You can buy their public lists and send special letters offering solutions for these motivated sellers.

3) Social Media --> Setup accounts for your real estate business
o Facebook
o Twitter
o Instagram

4) Online Communities
o Linked In


o Bird Dogs:
These are people dedicated to putting letters and referring deals to you. They usually work within a brokerage. They get paid a small fee for heling you find the deal

o Realtors:
They are licensed bird dogs. They typically make 6% commission on a deal that is split half among the Buyer and Seller Realtor agents which get paid when the deal is closed.
They typically work with other investors which you might be interested to work with, always ask your realtors agents for referrals.

o MLS:
This is the Multiple Listings Service. Houses get listed in the MLS before being placed for sale anywhere else.
Only brokers or agents have legal access to the list. You can access this list through a Realtor. Some agents offer a monthly subscription which allows you to look at the houses listed in the MLS.
You can add filters to your search preferences and notify your realtor, this way anytime a house that fits your criteria gets listed in the MLS you will get an automated email with the details of the houses that have been recently listed for sale.
The MLS is a great place to help you find deals

o REIA Groups:
Real Estate Investor Associations are networks of businessmen and agents that attend to a local gathering. You don’t need a license to open or join one of these groups. You only pay an entrance fee or buy annual membership.
It’s typically one huge networking party filled with business opportunities and people that share the same ideals. You can use this networks as an opportunity to give out flyers and meet your potential future business partners.



o Investor / Buyer Open House
In these events, you are specifically going to target rehabbers and investors with this method. It doesn’t matter if the house you’re selling is broken. Go to a REIA meeting and schedule an open house a few days after. 
To keep people engaged in these events giveaway different prices every hour. This will get people interested and make them attend to the event. Gathering together a lot of buyers into a room creates fear of urgency and fear of loss. This is beneficial for you since it will increase the possibilities of getting a good deal on your house. 

Marketing for Wholesale Opportunities

The only deals that work for wholesaling are those that you can get at a deep discount. You must target motivated sellers.
Rehabbers usually want to see a minimum profit of $60,000.
Your profits as a wholesaler will come from your negotiation skills.

Market Value --> $830,000 ARV (After Repair Value) you get this number from the comps
                               $20,000 Carrying Costs
                               $80,000 Rehab / Repairs
                               $600,000 Property Price
Discounted Price --> $595,000 – $5,000 Profit
                                    $580,000 – $20,000 Profit 
You profit from buying the house at a deep discounted price. Anything you can negotiate below the price line will be all profits for you.






Finding Motivated Sellers

This is the best way to acquire properties at a super discount
Don’t look for houses being represented by a realtor.
When looking at the MLS look for:
- Expired Listings --> these are people that wanted to sell their house, went through a realtor and was prepared to pay 6% fees. You now know they wanted to sell the house and they were prepared to pay fees to do so.

- Absentee Owners --> some owners have second homes that they only use once a year. You can convince them they are better off renting.
You can find absentee lists in google / vacant homes

- REO --> Bank owned properties

- Divorce, people going through divorce usually have to sell the house fast

- Bankruptcy, people going through bankruptcy

- Probate, someone who inherits a house and wants fast money

- Notice of Default, someone who’s not paying mortgage
These is public information and can be found through a public records list.










Chapter 5: How to Structure a Real Estate Deal

How to Construct a Wholesale Deal

Understanding the Wholesale Big Picture:
One of the best strategies to get quick active income is wholesaling properties. Wholesalers get paid profit for writing an offer on a home and signing a purchase & sales agreement contract. Once you have this signed, you now have equitable interest / right. With this you can wholesale the contract to a rehabber or investor.
As a wholesaler, you put properties under a purchase & sales agreement which gives you equitable interest that can be sold for profit.
Find a someone that wants to sell their house, put their property under contract. Once the paper has been signed, you can go find a buyer / rehabber. You must aim at least for $5,000 - $15,000 profit per deal. On average, you should make $10,000 per deal. Always have in mind that for a rehabber to accept your deal, he must be earning at least $60,000 profit from flipping the property.

How to Structure a Wholesale deal:
Traditional wholesale step-by-step,
1) Market for deals
2) Sign contract
3) Market for buyers
4) Close (resale or assignment)
Always be constantly building your buyers / rehabbers / investors database. This way, you will always have a pool of investors which you can count on to sell your deals fast.
The most important part is your marketing and negotiation skills. You must be able to find motivated sellers, get a deep discount by offering them to close fast and in cash.





Carrying Costs and Due Diligence:
This is the best practice that will allow you to invest and not lose money
You should always make offers with “Escape Clause” in it.
Do your due diligence before going into contract, understand your legal rights and write and contingencies you might have within your contract.

Due Diligence To-do Checklist:
* Seller disclosure statement --> Everything the seller knows about the property
* Inspect,
find a Home Inspector a check the chimney, electricity, roofing, sewer
* Review the title report
* Review the HOA (Homeowner Association) finances and management
* Check out the neighborhood and neighbors
* Confirm the house works for you
* Review the closing documents before signing

You must include fees and costs that come along with maintaining properties, they apply to all type of real estate deals whether active of passive income.
You must calculate:
- Taxes, you need to know what the tax assessed value on your property is and then figure out the annual taxes
- Mortgage / Interest
- Insurance
- HOA (Homeowner Association) Costs of condo administration and security
- Management Fees
These are the costs of ownership and they apply monthly.





Calculating Numbers on Rental Property



Rental Income = $1,500	Income          $1,500
-Laundry	Expenses         $675
-Storage	$825
-Miscellaneous expenses
-carrying costs and due diligence
Total Monthly Income = $1,500

 
* Tax: $150                                    

* Insurance:                      $100

* Utilities: $0, Tenants pay for this
- Electric
- Water
- Sewer
- Garbage
- Gas

* HOA Fees: $0, not located in HOA area
* Lawn: $0, no lawn or tenant pays for it
* Vacancy: set 5% vacancy, $75
* Repairs: $100, repair budget
* Cap Ex: $100, replacing things
* Property Management: 10% rent, $150
* Mortgage: $0, use online calculator
Total Monthly Expenses = $675


MAO (Maximum Allowable Offer)
To know when to and when not to jump into a deal,
You need to know the ARV (After Repair Value) e.g.: $200,000
To determine MAO, start at 70%, - Wholesale Discount x 7% = $60,000 discount.
This number is the rehabber and your profit. Every dollar you go up, the rehabber is going to lose, you must have an idea of how much you and the rehabber / investor want to profit from the deal. Usually, rehabbers want to profit around $40k to $60k
Repairs - $10,000
Carrying Costs - $3,000
MAO = $127,000, This number is where you start your offer
Step-by-Step Guide:
1) Find out the ARV (After Repair Value), you must have an idea of how much the property is going to be worth
2) Take a 30% Discount and multiply it by 7. Also, include the repair and carrying costs. $200,000 - $60,000 - $10,000 - $3,000 = $127,000
3) This amount is the most you can offer, every dollar you go up will be less profit for you.

Contract Escape Clause:
Every State has its own contract structure.
You want to add an addendum to your contract so it makes it legally possible for you to have someone else close on the property.








How to Present your Project to Cash Buyers

Any investor you present to will want to talk straight business. They are usually most interested on risk and reward. To persuade these cash buyers, you must bring them a wholesale package.

How to Pull Together a Wholesale Packet:
You are going to present your investors an informed decision. They will only have to see this package and decide whether they want to invest in the project or not.
1) Cover Page, start with a picture of the house, exterior, front looking at the house from the street. You must include address information, city and state, how much you sell for and contact information
2) Table of Content, have everything listed and easily accessible.
3) Tax Records / Auditor Records, every information about the house will be written in the tax records
4) Property Information: bedroom, bathroom, square foot, rooms, age, days on market analysis
5) Pictures and Video, make an honest review, show every detail of the house
6) Repairs Estimate
7) Buyers Resources, include contractor contact information and referrals
8) All your contact information
You must present all this information to an investor

How to Put a Property Under Contract

To get a property under contract you must:
1) Find a Seller
2) Get the house signed under a purchase and sales agreement
3) Negotiable terms:
- Price
- Terms --> Cash or not
- Contingencies --> “I will buy this only if_______”. This gives you an option to get out of the deal if you fail to persuade your investors
- Time lines, you can negotiate how long it will take you to close
4) Open escrow through a title company or a real estate attorney
How to Sell a Contract

The Two Best Ways to Resell your contract:
1) Resale
Get a contract / Purchase and Sales agreement, find an investor / buyer. First, you must close the deal. Take the contract to an investor and sell it for cash.

This strategy requires cash

2) Assignments of Contracts
Get a contract / Purchase and Sales Agreement. Get addendums in your contract and make it clear who is going to pay for the project, state whether it’s going to be traditional or creative financing and how long it will take you to close the deal.
Once you have both papers, bring your buyer / investor the details in a wholesale package along with the contracts to sign on the spot.

For this strategy, you don’t require cash, you only need to build a client base of cash buyers / investors

How to Reduce any Risk in the Buying and Selling process

There is less risk when you reverse the wholesale process. This is the best method to apply, the more buyers / investors you have, the less risk you have.
1) Market for Buyers / Investors, ask them for their “Buying criteria”, this way you will increase your chances of always having someone to invest in your properties
2) Target your marketing on motivated sellers fitting your buyer’s criteria into the properties
3) Sign Purchase and Sales Agreement
4) Sell your contract to a rehabber / investor





Chapter 6: How to Fund a Real Estate Deal

Traditional Financing

Prof of Traditional Financing:
- It’s Cheap Money, usually you pay a smaller interest rate compared to other methods
- Leverage, banks give up to 80% LTV (Loan to Value) the bank will buy 80% of your house, you will pay 20% money down and be left with a mortgage on the house. You own 100% of the property if you pay your annual interest.

             Cons of Traditional Financing:
- It’s a Slow Bureaucratic process
- You’re limited to 10 mortgages
- Full Documentation, you typically will need:
- 2 years’ minimum tax return to qualify for a mortgage
- Must have a credit score above 700 on Rental Real Estate
- Minimum of 90 days’ worth of bank statements
- You must have 1099(Tax Reference) through a W2H earner or a 1099 independent contractor of your own business
- You must have 1099 income for a minimum of 2 years
- FICO (Fair Isaac Company) Audit
In every offer, 2 things are taken into consideration:
- Price you offer
- Terms (cash or not)








Creative Financing

> Joint Venture / Equity Partners
> Hard Money Lenders
> Private Money Lenders

Joint Venture / Equity Partners:
This is when you bring a partner into the deal, usually an investor that will finance your project in exchange of a percentage of the project earnings
It’s the easiest way to start, but it’s the most expensive money to borrow since usually partners will want some equity from your property
The fastest way to find a joint venture equity partner is to find a real estate attorney and use his money to finance your projects. This will also allow you to get legal advice and access to all the contracts that you might need.

Hard Money Lenders:
It’s usually a private company that has a fund dedicated to lending money to people like you and me who are dedicated to finding deals and creating business opportunities. They might fund 100% of your project and they don’t care about your personal financial status, their only interested is the deal that you bring to the table and the ROI (Return on Investment)
These companies take more risk and charge more interest, Typically, hard money lenders will give 65% - 100% LTV (Loan to Value) and charge 10 – 15% interest, they might also charge points on the property.

Private Money Lenders:
This is normal people like family members and friends that have always wanted to invest in real estate and you are now going to offer them the opportunity to do so. They only care about the ROI (Return on Investment)
Interest rates typically go around 8% - 12%, and no points are charged.
Everything is detailed and laid out on a promissory note, which breaks down into a mortgage deed or a deed of trust.

Pros of Private money lending:
* It’s quick to close
You can pay in cash. Once you have the money lender’s approval, you will have a LOI (Letter of Intent), it’s a document outlining one or more agreements between two or more parties before the agreements are finalized.
You show this LOI to your seller and you will be able to close the deal on the spot.

* You can get up to 100% Financing
If the property you’re investing on meets your partner margins, you will be able to use all their money to close the deal on the spot.

* No documents required

Absolute No’s of Private money lending:
* You can’t borrow money from non-credited investors. To achieve credited investor status, you must:
-  Be married, making $300,000 together, annually for the last 2 years
- Be unmarried, making $200,000 a year for the last 2 years
- Have a net worth of $1,000,000
This means you can’t go out there and ask anyone for money to invest. However, you can borrow money from people within you sphere of influence. This means you can use your close friends and your family member’s money to finance your first business ventures.

Money Lender Psychology and Terminology

Basics of lending:
If you have $200k, you can get 2 house instead of 1 if you split your project half-half with a money lender. Money lenders don’t care about your credit or income, they only care about the asset that you’re going to invest in.
What to look for in a lender?
When looking for lenders you need good communication and transparency. Only start looking for money lenders if you don’t have control of the deal. You only control the deal when you have it under equitable title or you control the contract.
Work with a licensed lender in your state.
What do lenders look for in a borrower?
The most important aspect and perspective a lender considers when deciding to invest in you is the knowledge and use of terminology. You must be able to speak their lingo.
Being able to speak the language and have an articulate conversation weighs heavy. It’s more important than your credit history.
You must present them a clear game plan with a well-structured investing packet presentation

Hard Money Terminology:
* Fair Money --> 18% annual interest and 1point on the property or 12% annual interest and 2points on the property is what most hard money lenders consider a fair deal or (Fair Money). This is abbreviated in 18/1 and 12/2

* LTV (Loan to Value) -->  is a financial term used by lenders to express the ratio of a loan to the value of an asset purchased. Generally, they do 60% up to 100%

* LTC (Loan to Cost) --> It’s used to compare the financing of a project as offered by a loan to the cost of building the project. The LTC ratio allows real estate lenders to determine the risk of offering a construction loan.

* Skin in the game --> They want you to have money or some asset on the line as a guarantee that you are going to be totally devoted to making the project profitable.

* ARV (After Repair Value) --> It’s the new estimated value the property will be worth once all the repairs have been done.

How to Find Hard Money Lenders

- Craigslist
- Newspapers
- Google Search
- Ask Title Companies for referrals
- Ask for Referrals in REIA Group meetings
Any lenders goal is to give out money, all you need to do is prove them you’re going to be reliable.
Page 2 of 29


Eric
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES


Eric
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES


Page 21 of 29


